W-17006783 client id enforcement gr (#734)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: pdk/1.3/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-pdk-configure-features-contracts.adoc

= Using Contracts Validation Library Functions
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> NOTE: To view an example policy project that uses Flex Gateway Policy Development Kit (PDK)'s Contracts Validation library, see https://github.com/mulesoft/pdk-custom-policy-examples/blob/{template-policies-url-ver-var}/contracts-validation/README.md[Contracts Validation Policy Example^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: To view an example policy project that uses Flex Gateway Policy Development Kit (PDK) Contracts Validation library, see https://github.com/mulesoft/pdk-custom-policy-examples/blob/{template-policies-url-ver-var}/contracts-validation/README.md[Contracts Validation Policy Example].
```

Reviewer: (don't make product names [possessive](https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Term+Presentation+Reference#:~:text=Don%27t%20make%20possessive%3A))

> xref:api-manager::api-contracts-landing-page.adoc[Contracts] between API instances and applications give the application access to the instance based on SLA tiers. Client applications can validate their contracts by providing credentials that consist of the client ID and client secret. The PDK Contracts Validation library provides functions to validate client credentials and implement a custom client ID enforcement policy.

Reviewer: Make this the short description and move the NOTE below.

> xref:api-manager::api-contracts-landing-page.adoc[Contracts] between a API instances and applications give the application access to the instance based on SLA tiers. Client applications can validate their contract by providing credentials that consist of the client ID and client secret. The PDK Contracts Validation library provides functions to validate client credentials and implement a custom client ID enforcement policy.

Reviewer 2: I think "between a API instances" should be said as "between API instances". Also "Client applications can validate their contract" should be "Client applications can validate their contracts".

Only one contract at a time can exist between an API instance and an application.

[[contracts-module]]

> == Contracts Module

Reviewer: Maybe "Validate with the Contracts Module"?

The Contracts Validation library is available from the `pdk::contracts` module. 

> The module provides the `ContractValidator` object to validate client credentials represented by the `ClientId` and `ClientSecret` objects. Validate authentication and authorization can with the `ContractValidator::authenticate()` and `ContractValidator::authorize()` methods:

Reviewer: Read the second sentence aloud.

[source,Rust]
----
impl ContractValidator {
   pub fn authenticate(client_id: &ClientId, client_secret: &ClientSecret) -> Result<ClientData, AuthenticationError>;
   pub fn authorize(client_id: &ClientId, client_secret: &ClientSecret) -> Result<ClientData, AuthorizationError>;
}
----

Both methods return a `ClientData` struct that holds the client ID, client name, and SLA ID fields:

[source,Rust]
----
pub struct ClientData {
    pub client_id: String,
    pub client_name: String,
    pub sla_id: Option<String>,
}
----

[[request-validation]]
== Request Authentication and Authorization

> Authenticate a request by extracting the client credentials from the request and then invoking the `ClientValidation::authenticate()` method. The `pdk::contracts` module provides the `basic_auth_credentials()` helper function to extract Basic Authentication credentials from request headers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authenticate a request by extracting the client credentials from the request and then invoke the `ClientValidation::authenticate()` method. The `pdk::contracts` module provides the `basic_auth_credentials()` helper function to extract Basic Authentication credentials from request headers:
```

[source,Rust]
----
pub fn basic_auth_credentials(request_headers_state: &RequestHeadersState)
    -> Result<(ClientId, ClientSecret), BasicAuthError>;
----

> This code snippet provides a simple authentication request filter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code snippet provides a simple authentication-request filter:
```

Reviewer: hyphenate compound adjectives for easier understanding

  validator: &ContractValidator,
) -> Flow<()> {

    // Extract credentials
    let (client_id, client_secret) = match basic_auth_credentials(&state) {
        Ok(credentials) => credentials,
        Err(e) => {
            logger::info!("Invalid credentials: {e}");

            // For simplicity, we are using a user-defined `unathorized_response()`
            // helper function for building responses.
            return Flow::Break(unauthorized_response("Invalid credentials", 401));
        }
    };

    // Validate authentication
    let validation = validator.authenticate(&client_id, &client_secret);

    let client_data = match validation {
        Ok(client_data) => client_data,
        Err(e) => {
            logger::info!("Invalid authentication: {e}");
            return Flow::Break(unauthorized_response("Invalid authentication", 403));
        }
    };

    // Update the current authentication
    if let Some(mut auth) = authentication.authentication() {
        auth.client_id = Some(client_data.client_id);
        auth.client_name = Some(client_data.client_name);

        authentication.set_authentication(Some(&auth));
    }

    Flow::Continue(())
}
----

> This code snippet provides a simple authorization request filter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code snippet provides a simple authorization-request filter:
```

[source,Rust]
----
async fn my_authorization_filter(
  state: RequestHeadersState,
  validator: &ContractValidator,
) -> Flow<()> {

    // Extract client id with a user defined helper `extract_client_id()` function,
    let client_id = match extract_client_id(&state) {
        Ok(credentials) => credentials,
        Err(e) => {
            logger::info!("Invalid credentials: {e}");

            // For simplicity, we are using a user-defined `unathorized_response()`
            // helper function for building responses.
            return Flow::Break(unauthorized_response("Invalid credentials", 401));
        }
    };

    // Validate authorization
    let validation = validator.authorize(&client_id);

    if let  Err(e) = validation {
        logger::info!("Invalid authentication: {e}");
        return Flow::Break(unauthorized_response("Invalid authentication", 403));
    }

    Flow::Continue(())
}
----

[[custom-credentials-extraction]]

> == Implement Custom Extraction for Client credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Implement Custom Extraction for Client Credentials
```

Invoke the `ClientId::new()` and `ClientSecret::new()` methods to extract credentials:

[source,Rust]
----
impl ClientId {
   pub fn new(client_id: String) -> Self;
}

impl ClientSecret {
   pub fn new(client_secret: String) -> Self;
}
----

After extracting the credentials, initialize a set of the credentials:

[source,Rust]
----

fn initialize_credentials(raw_client_id: String, raw_client_secret) -> (ClientId, ClientSecret) {
   let client_id = ClientId::new(raw_client_id);
   let client_secret = ClientSecret::new(raw_client_secret);

   (client_id, client_secret)
}

----

> NOTE: For security, the content of `ClientSecret` is deleted after use, and the `Debug` trait does not expose the `ClientSecret` content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: For security, the content of `ClientSecret` is deleted after use, and the `Debug` trait doesn’t reveal the `ClientSecret` content.
```

[[contract-validator-injection]]
== Inject the ContractValidator Object

Inject the `ContractValidator` object into the `#[entrypoint]` function and share its reference to the request filter:

[source,Rust]
----
#[entrypoint]
async fn configure(launcher: Launcher, validator: ContractValidator) -> Result<(), LaunchError> {

    let filter = on_request(|state, authentication| my_authentication_filter(state, authentication, &validator));
    launcher.launch(filter).await?;

    OK(())
}
----

[[contract-database-polling]]

> === Local Contracts Database Polling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Poll the Local Contracts Database
```

Reviewer: Or rather, what is the user task? Maintain a valid copy of the contracts? Keep contracts up-to-date?

The `ContractValidator` object maintains a local copy of the contracts database. You must poll the local copy periodically to maintain a valid
copy of the contracts. Invoke the `ContractValidator::update_contracts()` method to poll the local copy:

[source,Rust]
----

impl ContractValidator {
    pub async fn update_contracts(&self) -> Result<(), UpdateError>;
}

----

> If the `ContractValidator::update_contracts()` method returns an error that specifies a connectivity problem occurred

Reviewer: the programmer -> you?

> during the contracts database polling, the programmer must implement the retry and error handling heuristics. You must invoke `ContractValidator::update_contracts()` in a period specified by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
during the contracts database polling, the programmer must implement the retry and error handling heuristics. To do this, invoke `ContractValidator::update_contracts()` in a period specified by the
```

`ContractValidator::UPDATE_PERIOD` constant:

[source,Rust]
----

async fn update_my_contracts(validator: &ContractValidator, clock: Clock) {
    
    // Configure a new timer
    let timer = clock.period(ContractValidator::UPDATE_PERIOD);
    
    loop {
       // Update result handling should be customized by the programmer
       let update_result = validator.update_contracts().await;
       
       // Wait for the next tick
       if !timer.next_tick().await {
           // If no more ticks are available, finish the task.
           return;
       }
    }
}
----

> There is a contract database initialization period where the contracts database must be polled in a higher frequency

Reviewer: Avoid this construction: "there is"

> There is a contract database initialization period where the contracts database must be polled in a higher frequency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contract database initialization period specifies when to poll the contracts database at a higher frequency
```

Reviewer: (Not sure if that's correct - probably changed the meaning)

       
       // Wait for the next tick
       if !timer.next_tick().await {
           // If no more ticks are available, finish the task.
           return;
       }
    }
}

----

This snippet shows a complete contract polling task with initialization and update polling periods:

[source,Rust]
----
async fn update_my_contracts(validator: &ContractValidator, clock: Clock) {
    let initialization_timer = clock.period(ContractValidator::INITIALIZATION_PERIOD);
    
    loop {
        if validator.update_contracts().await.is_ok() {
            logger::info!("Contracts storage initialized.");
            break;
        }

        if !initialization_timer.next_tick().await {
            logger::info!("Tick event suspended.");
            break;
        }
 }

    let update_timer = initialization_timer
        .release()
        .period(ContractValidator::UPDATE_PERIOD);
   
   loop {
        let _ = validator.update_contracts().await;
        
        if !update_timer.next_tick().await {
            logger::info!("Tick event suspended.");
            break;
        }
        logger::info!("Retrying contracts storage initialization.");
    }
}
----

> Since contracts database polling task must run concurrently with the `Launcher::launch()` task, use the `join!()` macro

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the contracts database polling task must run concurrently with the `Launcher::launch()` task, use the `join!()` macro
```

Reviewer: Don't use since if you mean because

> from the https://crates.io/crates/futures[futures] crate to join both tasks. This snippet implementes a complete `#[entrypoint]` function with polling and launching:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from the https://crates.io/crates/futures[futures] crate to join both tasks. This snippet implements a complete `#[entrypoint]` function with polling and launching:
```

Reviewer: Check your VSCode spellcheck extension...
